# How to Prepare for AI Search - Aleyda Solis

**Expert:** aleyda-solis
**Video ID:** NNl9sRCv3q8
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NNl9sRCv3q8

---

## Transcript

[Music] Welcome to another English episode of the SEO Presso podcast. I'm in London today and was lucky enough to catch a later solless to talk with her about one of the hottest topics in SEO right now. How to actually build an AI search optimization road map and how to win in AI. Elena Sol is one of the most respected global SEO experts, consultants to brands worldwide and always ahead of the curve when it comes to new search trends. We will dive into how her clients are already using generative AI, what traffic shifts they are seeing from platforms like Chatty, Perplexity or Google's AI overviews, and most importantly, how to turn all of this into a road map that actually drives business results. So, here's a later solo podcast. Let's jump right in. So later welcome to the SEO press podcast. I'm very honored that you are here. I mean you've been in the industry for a long long time and uh I really like to ask you like how do you feel being an SEO nowadays? >> It really feels like back in the day when I was just entering SEO in 2007. A lot of things new uh a lot of things ready to be tested. no absolute truth and also truths that can be real and truths today but not necessarily tomorrow because things are shifting so much and changing so much right so uh these are honestly very exciting times I know that there's a lot of let's say unstability going on and a lot of people unfortunately those that focus on certain sectors have been negatively affected uh but in general I think that it's very exciting times to learn, to shift, to be proactive and um and to have this this test and validate and curiosity mindset that I think is what differentiated SEOs forever, right? >> Absolutely. And I I also I totally agree. I think it was like, you know, for a long time it wasn't that interesting to be an SEO for a long time, right? Because we we repeated all the same EIT content, etc. >> 100%. In fact, we got to relying on what Googler said to be honest because I remember that for a long a long time at the beginning when I started doing it. So maybe 2007 until 2012 or so. Uh I Matt Cops was there and he only said so much right but in recent years we had a lot of this team of Googlers yes uh advocating evangelizing uh etc. and we got to relying on on that rather than our own tests and our own validations, observations and so on. So I think that those of of us that uh who who are used to what we used to uh back in the day are not necessarily that shocked to see or to be in this moments uh to do SEOs or or optimize for new platforms as well because we have this productiviveness. Uh but unfortunately I can also see that those who started doing SEO like in the last seven years or five years might I see like a completely new type of situation going on. >> Yeah. It's like similar to like mo most probably mobile get on right before you did SEO and then there was mobile get on and then like everything was new apparently but wasn't but >> but like if we talk about AI like I I really like to distinguish because if we talk about optimizing for AI then it's a leveraging AI in order to optimize right and then it's also optimizing for AI search I mean you work with clients worldwide can you share how companies that you work with are using actually generative AI to create real business value. I mean a lot of people are talking about using CH2P perplexity but really creating business value >> 100%. So I work with SAS marketplaces and realistically I love how we all love to hey AI generated content or AI generated whatever because we always side to low quality and it doesn't need to be like that and and also the same with programmatic right uh unfortunately for many programmatic uh equals spam and it doesn't need to be like that if it does if it if it's done well and for use cases that actually makes sense uh to to do that at scale to target good use cases uh relevant use cases and and queries and scenarios for our business. So for example I have u uh marketplaces let's say in certain sectors that leverage programmatic that is much more sophisticated and better because of AI >> better content better FAQs better better um um summarize reviews and data and insights across different landing pages for every use case at scale. Um that actually makes sense that is review and there is a proper workflow that the data is brought from internal uh insights and information of the client that is not that is not an externally used or non chat GBT but it's integrated within the platform and um and it's trained from their own insights and is topnotch and has helped to elevate uh the value that this landing page provide for their customers. Before it was like lowlevel um let's say summarization of of insights now is much more blended much more sophisticated better personalized and so on because of AI the same with internal linking as well right like you could do it in a less sophisticated way before now much better because you are able to better uh identify semantically related content and information as well and better refer uh to your to your users based on the the buyer journey uh and the topic that they came from and so on etc Yeah, I mean that's an amazing example exactly this is what what especially using your own data right so let's say you are a marketplace right um or like a real estate platform where you have a lot of environmental data like you know crime rates and uh cost of living in a certain area if you combine that with generative AR AI that's that's the jackpot right that's that's perfect when you look across your client base like do like what traffic changes are you seeing from AI how I I powered search platforms like jet dribblexity or Google AI overviews. So it's I I guess it depends on what type of clients we work with and I have to clarify right I I am in the situation that 90% of the clients that I work with are enterprise level so are very well established brands. Yes, >> they have very mature organic uh search platform already uh that has been optimized for a while. They have usually internal team. They bring me to advise and provide external consultancy to complement what they're already doing. So it's the type of brand that you won't see in the typical case studies of oh I have 10x my traffic all of a sudden in front and the type of a scenarios where I see this coming is like for little startups that we're not even doing any SEO. So of course whatever they do now in terms of citations or digital PR or whatever or you see now they see uh their traffic 10x from Chad GBT because of course they had nothing in traditional search. The brands that I work with had have had tons already coming from traditional source. So realistically, it's true that it's growing a lot, but potentially right now the ones that have the biggest share of AI traffic are 4% or so. >> Yeah. >> Because all of the the uh platforms or channels are so well optimized and very well established already. But it's true that it's growing uh fast that at the beginning of the year it was 1%, now it's 4%. Let's see where it is in at the end of the year, right? And um so it's growing very fast on one hand then it's converting also very well but also it has to do with the the the industry of my clients. I I love I I I work with a lot of SAS and marketplaces and um online retailers. I imagine that is different or it's a different stories if if you are share for example. Yes. So in in my scenario my situation I have seen that the value that is being brought by um traffic it it's good quality it's great uh a lot of questions a lot of traffic that is being brought by use cases a lot of of of traffic that is being brought by the help center. So here's a a a really good point to be made here of the integration of all of those forums and help centers that are uh siloed in in subdomains that are not even integrated with the design of the main website. A lot of SAS still do this by the way. Uh and there's a lot of value and traffic coming from AI because of course people research the questions are sourced from from these ODC type of sources. >> Yeah, absolutely. I I think you're complet completely right. Right. So you should look at industries because if I look at my industry which is real estate, right? I mean we are talking about 1% of the traffic compared to Google traffic, right? If that would just be another traffic channel, we wouldn't even bother, right? So we wouldn't even look at it. But because it's such an high%, you know what pays me and and of course I mean I'm all of being proactive and and prepared for whatever shifts. Uh however realistically like I it it pains me to see many sea decision makers uh putting attention or or wanting to invest >> money that they have never ever in their mind blocked their minds to invest in SEO that is bringing >> in many cases 70% of their traffic and revenue. Thank you very much. So yes, it's it's very interesting, but that is why thankfully we have data sources to prove and we have knowhow to show or to be able to to to to get by in show value and show realistic value and showcase also how what we are doing with SEO and this what I'm I'm trying to change the narrative or shift or uh influence the narrative here. Okay, you you have great interests on AI. Amazing. Perfect. Uh 80% of what we're already doing in traditional search will impact on that. Let's put more money on here as well. >> H and we will see impact twice as fast because a this is a channel that is already mature. We'll have way there with what we want. We just need just this extra resources for this that will achieve this and AI search visibility but also in traditional search. So this is the type of influence and knowhow I believe and and and advice that the shoemakers uh need uh in order to see an actual impact at the end of the day. um to be realistic of to setting expectations right as well. Uh because unfortunately all of this Yeah. hype and fluff and SEO is dead and AI is a new channel whatever that we see around indeed. >> Yeah. But let's assume you have a CL you would have a client that you know sees traffic is decreasing right and they see more and more also you know being visible in in AI uh and AIdriven search results for example. So what what strategies would you recommend and maybe based also on the uh presentation that you gave what strategies would you recommend the the client to focus on stay visible and actually drive clicks from AIdriven search. So what I will actually take a look at is which are the other platforms that are being used as sources not only for the AI overviews or that are actually very likely impacting negatively the traffic and that is why it's decreasing but all of these are features uh that is being that are being shown beyond AI overviews like for example like also ask or or video carousels or or UGC etc. And in general, what is the we use data sources like the one of similar web as well like what are the platforms where users are engaging the most or getting more traffic beyond Google and many times we are going to see that these are the same type of of audiences that are hanging out more and more in YouTube in Tik Tok. Yes, >> in Reddit, this is where my money will go and and uh we will see that many many times it will correlate with the citations that AI platforms will uh use. So it should indirectly uh positively influence any AI visibility as well also your visibility and inclusion in your features. uh maybe your organic traditional organic Google traffic won't necessarily grow because I'm vesting on on those but you will see more direct traffic coming from those or referral traffic coming from those uh if you start get engaging more and more in there so I have a client that actually spend quite a bit in YouTube because of the nature of their is a SAS their nature of their platform right and um it pays off it pays off they have a community management team engaging with influencers there and a lot of the visibility that it's coming from um AI is because of all of the citations and and the endorsement and the referral that those videos have not only from YouTube itself but also a lot of conversations in Reddit that end up referring to the the videos in YouTube and things like that. Yeah, I I love that YouTube example because also within my industry like I see one example where a very small player actually is is getting uh a lot of you know referral traffic from chat GPT or I I search and the reason is I was looking it up right the reason is or I believe the reason is because LLMs are also trained with transcripts from YouTube but they also of course look for citation citations and stuff right so what they did is like they have a huge community on YouTube it's about renting flats Right. So, so they get go exactly on this question. What do I need to consider when I view a flat? What do I need to consider when I do this X Y Z? And they create the videos, the transcript. And that's why they are really strong when it comes to >> really nice and shows the value of it and how to to repurpose that information and and to maximize the opportunities with that information that was not necessarily meant to be for SEO, but it will impact SEO. Something that you reminded me of like a year ago, I was invited to speak at this creators event. Yes, >> travel creators. So we it it was very interesting for me that in my session I only got this cohort that was of more like older let's say creators that had blocks that were were unfortunately many of them impacted by the HCU and all of the this latest uh updates that negatively affected uh uh this sort of more independent indie uh traffic that rely a lot on on re on on on um affiliates and ads. Um, and then there was this younger cohort of influencers and creators that were at that event that were not necessarily that interest uh interested on on traditional SEO, let's say Google Pocus SEO. So, I went and asked and I started to interact with them to learn more and it was so mind-blowing to me to see how the younger generation didn't even had a blog. They all and these are troubled influencers and creators or whatever. They all were relying on Tik Tok and Instagram and they didn't even bother with a desktop or a laptop to create the content and produce like everything editable editable with Cupcot or whatever mobile apps from the mobile. >> My son is same. Yeah, my son is the same. So, so my and of course it's it's different if you are a big publisher and a big creator let's say more professional than that but it shows how you need to be where your audiences and how audiences are shifting and not necessarily using a more for many use cases and across many topics Google anymore so maybe you need to invest more on your presence on Tik Tok maybe you need to invest more on your presence on Instagram if if you provide content and create content >> yeah in Um so my management directors came to me one one uh the other day and they asked me okay B how visible are we like are we actually playing a role within within CHGP within AI search everything was new right of course I know the answer but um like like if clients come to you like what would you recommend how can they measure how visible and how relevant they are in AI search >> yeah so on one hand is um taking a look at their analytics data current traffic analytics data with first party uh existing data that they have and then start using platforms like uh similar web right that allow to start tracking the visibility versus players uh current traffic versus players to also do a little bit of benchmark validation to understand the gap and the opportunity maybe they are already the leaders maybe there's only so much that they can gain from that but maybe they realize we realize that they're analyzing uh the current standing in traffic and engagement and visibility and everything that they're behind so yes there's room for opportunity and maybe we identified that a lot a lot has to do with stuff that we already had in the backlog anyway. So we just need to prioritize or or not that we need to start from scratch. depending on that. But my recommendation is to validate to assess rather than start saying okay give me budget let's buy a tool because unfortunately this is the thing a lot of decision makers ask this question after they have read some news or come or they have uh been requested by a tool or a platform uh for to get a a meeting or or to ask for budget because they they are pitching something right yeah that's like what for me was mind-blowing and and that should actually steer a lot of your optimization initiatives like when I use G4 for example. So I I I I filter for all those AI search platforms right and what is more interestingly is actually where does the traffic land to >> and in com comparison to traditional SEO where a lot in the time marketplace go to a SER landing page like a listing pen landing page and AI search is the detail page. >> Yeah. and to 60% of all the traffic goes to a detail page and the SER comes on on on position number three or so right and this is G gives a a completely new >> 100% I I see that a lot in e-commerce where is the homepage for a lot of branded >> it's the last one >> and and and uh and and then there's a very long tale for PDPs yes probably but it makes sense because at the end of the day it doesn't make sense for this platforms to site so much category pages or listing pages because those are aggregations of Yeah, >> links pretty much with a little bit of descriptions and FAQs, but most of the content where is the content is the PP right at the bottom of the funeral. That is why there's also a good case of trying to leverage more uhformational content that is well integrated well placed to complement that information that is much more commercially oriented as well. But a lot of a lot of especially shopping type of sites haven't invested much on. >> Yeah. And and that also makes sense because I mean open AAI or CHP in that sense or P they want to become the middleman right they want to become the aggregator >> which is actually if realistically this is something that even traditional uh SER is shifting to with especially with shopping right like a lot of the traffic now if you see it's it's you can see eBay by the way data how everything because they have they have all of the PDPs under a specific uh directory and all of category pages and another one and if you see the evolution over time of the tool and traffic you you see how PDP's directory is growing and how the PPS piece directory is going down makes sense not only from of AI platforms but also from the SERs because of all of the product packs >> yes product knowledge panels that end up referring directly to the PDP uh the category pages are still ranking even top position but far below to the road packs that are above the four now. So yeah. >> Yeah. I loved by the way how you broke down the comparison between traditional search and uh AI search. So from your perspective again what are the key differences between models like chat GPT Gemini Player Plexity or Google AI overviews on how should companies adapt their optimization strategies for each? Yeah, I think that the first and and biggest one that we need to think of is like the the search behavior for what are our users actually uh using these platforms is like the same. What is the overlap? What are the new type of behaviors and prompts and interactions that they are having there that we are not yet tackling because they were we were not used to and they were not doing that with traditional search that are actually relevant for us to tackle. Uh it's not necessarily because of commercial opportunities but potentially because of authority, insights, data and uh because of the level of personalization this that these type of platforms tend to have. We want to be showcased even at the beginning of the journey. So they can interact with us and we have higher chances to be recommended at the very end of the journey as well. uh so definitely the behavior uh validation uh there's that then on the other on the other hand is what are the type of expectations because realistic realistically across many scenarios even if we are highly visible the level of the share of traffic won't be the same for a lot of scenarios for a lot of type of questions are less transactional that are moreformational so how do we measure success there how do we know that it pays off to be there right and and this trick is about attribution and is a a bigger conversation about attribution models to use. How do we track that? Uh how much does it influence um even direct traffic that we end up getting uh later on on on our site and things like that. So it's important to I believe to try to test to assess because otherwise it can be a money uh ways to start like creating like Hopson's box for every topic if if you're a big retailer right so what I tend to advise clients like okay let's pick the top three topics that you have a real unique set of position and those product lines and let's focus on that let's double down there in the next six months and let's let's see how it pays off and then we have actual data to show like hey we have double down on the information that insights the data that we provide here and this is how we have grown not only and this is the thing it's not on a silo not only in AI platforms but in traditional and across all of the platforms efforts that we're doing where this type of information will be surface right and will have play a role in decision making and I believe that that finally something that we haven't talked about yet a lot that I cover here before in in today's session is like realistically We are also optimizing for different bots and I don't think that especially from a technical optimization perspective we highlight this enough how overall line are we on clients are render javascript do have we actually validated are we are are we monitoring with our web server log files or do we have CDN access to see and validate how these bots are behaving and uh where what content they are crawling and what content is invisible for them because if we are overrelying on um clients are render JavaScript for all of our a lot of our information um we might be missing out and that's very building blocks type of thing that we had tackle and was a sole problem for many uh already in uh traditional search for traditional search for Google but it's not a sole problem for LMS and it's not about just extrapolating what we had because different user agents seeing different things being blocked from other things and and having a better uh type of handling of of of that information. that we allow them to see because maybe they it it didn't make sense for traditional search bots to see for example internal search results uh because would that would generate content duplication issues but maybe for LMS it makes sense because there are new insights there there's new information there um that is unstructured but uh since they don't rank pages anyway but uh chunks and passages is it's relevant for them to see that information as well. >> I I especially love like the comparison between okay, Google does one query on you know like the user does one query and then Google goes to one page in the index which they think might be relevant and that appears in search with this AI does query fan out and you know looks at different fragments on different you know kind of sources which underlines the fact that you should be appearing as a source on different platforms right and and that is really that's really a key differentiation >> oh I and it's something that should be again completely new. We should aim for topical story e blah blah blah blah but very few actually did it well because of course we were obsessed of getting the click in Google and it work how it worked right >> yeah many companies are asking okay how do I even start right what does an effective AI search optimization roadmap look like in practice >> so the like I actually share a stepby-step road map and uh well you have access to it I will also sharing many many more insights many of my talks in the next few weeks and months will be about that. But the first thing is uh assessment validation from a uh user behavior standpoint. Unfortunately, right now uh the only very few platforms that allows to access that information. But by the way, not only similar web but also Citrix has the AI model as well providing pumps uh information uh displaying which are the top entities, top brands uh per any topic as well uh profound as well. So we have more data sources right now to give a to gauge right now the topical opportunity and and visibility that we already have. So doing a benchmark doing an analysis a research audience research for each one of these platforms which are the ones that are actually referring more traffic in our industry or to our player to our competitors and other players that we are not getting yet. things like that. There's that. And then from a mechanical standpoint, what I mentioned before uh validating well what the scroller the AI bot scrollers actually see and are able to index. And then from a content standpoint, what is the gap realistically to what we have been doing so far from a content optimization standpoint for traditional search versus what should be surface in um AI platforms? Is is it very likely we wanted to start from scratch? very likely it's just about uh giving more weight to certain type of efforts that we had in the backlog before and uh and and do do pilot projects at this point because again since this is shifting this evolving a lot uh new features new trends uh come and go so we need to allocate uh resources with certain constraints as well to be realistic and and give it a go and then finally to measure it well to configure our analytics well in order to measure accordingly and and to monitor pay attention to identify any shift. Um the the the the there were many insights shared lately regarding oh chat GBT is referring less traffic in recent months and um this this the the the release or let's say or tweet or or disclaimer of the this this Googlers saying oh you will see in the next few weeks and months also shift in our traffic going in a positive way because we are going to start integrating embedding links in AI load much further. So again, things change pretty quickly. So we need to be paying attention and I understand that we shouldn't obsess on static answers because they are highly personalized etc. But we should track the trends at the end of the day to shift accordingly and we should also aim to be flexible enough and and and communicating that to decision makers as well like look this shifting very fast. We'll need flexibility. So this is my road map but uh maybe in 3 months I will let you know maybe we'll need to shift a little bit further because things are are are shifting as well and we need to allocate resources accordingly. >> But with with all you saying maybe this the last question like would you would you agree that content is the most important piece to build that topical authority being you know effective on all platforms? Yes. That's the number one investment everyone >> content in your platform in your own website and third party as well. Yes. >> Um to create presence in with in mind, right? To to refer you as a brand to establish brand authority, popularity, content that is also very aligned to your business. Yes. Not fluff content, not generic top content just to try to piggy back on a trending topic or something like that. That is something that unfortunately we went too far with in traditional search. um but content that is aligned with our customer journey uh and we are aim to provide actual value for and uh content that we should leverage for digital PR community management and so on and we should aim to collaborate with these other areas too uh and these are the ones that are going to pay off also from a citation standpoint. >> Thank you very much for the interview. It was a pleasure. >> Likewise. Thank you for the opportunity. It was an amazing uh interview. I really enjoy it. Thanks. Thank you.