# AI Changed SEO Forever - How to Win in 2025

**Expert:** nathan-gotch
**Video ID:** 7mtCa8sqjBo
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7mtCa8sqjBo

---

## Transcript

Welcome back to another edition of AI Rabbit Holes. This is a video series where I go down the rabbit hole exploring artificial intelligence as there's a never-ending list of rabbit holes to explore. And in this video, we're going to explore AI and SEO. And I'm honored to have on the one and only Nathan Gotch. Now, Nathan Gotch is the founder of Gotch SEO and also an AI powered SEO tool called Rankability. He's one of the few SEOs that I actually respect and trust on this topic. believe it or not. Uh so Nathan, it's an honor to have you on. Thanks for being here. >> Thank you so much for having me. >> Yeah, absolutely. So let's just get started here. We don't need to do a a convoluted in-depth intro. You've been in SEO since 2011. Um going through all the different phases, the updates, uh Panda, I actually saw a Panda reference the other day that kind of had a flashback there. Um to running sevenfigure businesses. So, I guess what I'm trying to say here is looking back, what convinced you that SEO was a skill that you needed to double down on early on? >> Well, I I kind of found it by accident to be honest. Um, so I was uh I you know, I had this ambition to make money online. I know it's the the ambition of many people, you know, go to Google and how do I make money online? And of course, I did a bunch of sketchy things like most people do. I was doing paid surveys. I was trying to sell my college books. And let's just say nothing was really working out. Um, but then I I found this in hindsight a very very sketchy online course that I paid I think it was $47 and um and I was like I was a college student at the time. I was a junior going into my senior year of college and so like 47 bucks was like a million dollars. Oh yeah. >> So but for some reason I was like you know what I'm just going to go for it. I'm going to buy this thing. >> And what was the course? >> Uh it was called web colleagues. >> Okay. >> Yeah. So really Yeah. you know, and it was so basically the course is like a bunch of different ways to make money online. Many of them were sketchy, but then there was like one that really popped out to me and it was to start a blog. And you know, back then starting a blog was actually a lucrative thing to do. Not so much today. We can talk about that. But, you know, back then that was a thing. So, I was like, "All right, well, I don't really know what to blog about." And so, at the time, the only thing I really knew how to do was play baseball. And I was a I was a baseball pitcher on my team. So, I was like, I guess I'll just write about baseball pitching. And so, I started this blog, uh, the ultimate pitcher. And, um, I I just started blogging. And, you know, like most people experience, uh, just creating content does not produce the outcomes that you're hoping for. Typically, uh, you need people to actually see that content for it to get traffic. And so, I was like, "All right, well, how do I like I'm I'm pumping out all this this content and like no one is seeing it." Um, and so I started to went, you know, went back to Google and I started searching ways to get traffic and I stumbled upon this thing SEO and uh, man, it was like revolutionary for me because as soon as I started to learn like, wait a second, okay, well, number one, I can't pay for ads because I have no money. So, this is like a perfect fit. Uh, and so then I I I went basically all in on it. And I'm like, if I can get traffic for free, like this is perfect. So I started like very very amateur type of stuff but just trying to figure like okay I understand I got to find topics I got to create content about those topics uh and then kind of try to optimize my content. So I started doing that and I actually started to get some you know traffic coming in and then I still remember like making my first affiliate sale in 20 I guess it was I guess 2012 was the first time I did it and it was like on the way to bowling with you know with my friends and I see this >> Yeah. And I feel I see this affiliate sale come through ClickBank and I was like, "Oh my gosh, I like actually made money from this." Like it blew my mind. And that was it for me. I was like, "This is it. This is what I'm doing. I don't care. Like I know my family wants me to be a lawyer, but they're not going to know that this is what I'm going to do." And so I was just like, and it was kind of weird because I it wasn't even like the money. It was more the fact that like I was like, "What? I just like was able to generate traffic and that traffic translated to something." It was like so my obsession started to become more on the SEO side of it. Not so much to like I honestly didn't really care about the money. I just cared more about this like skill. I was like if I learned how to like master this skill like the world would be my oyster basically. >> Yeah. And so >> and you were early on too. I mean you caught it in at a pretty good time 2011 2012. I mean we had our heyday up until what 2021 22 somewhere around there. >> Yeah I would say so. Um, and I mean there are people obviously started even further behind, you know, even longer than me. Um, but I was relatively early, I guess, by most standards. I mean, I'm like an I'm like an old man by, you know, internet standards at this point. Um, but I've been doing SEO literally constantly since 2011. And I mean, even when I was even uh my senior year in 2012, >> like I spent most of my time doing SEO, not doing my homework. >> Yeah. >> So, so I would just be obviously. >> Yeah. So, that's how I found it. And then I just I became very um very obsessed to say the least. So >> yeah, absolutely. So speaking of that light bulb moment when you know SEO triggered for you, let's fast forward now and Nathan, what was that light bulb moment that told you, hey, this old SEO playbook with AI and automation being in the midst of everything and whatnot? This is over. What was that moment like for you? Well, I mean it was actually even probably before AI where I started to see the writing on the wall because >> zero click and featured snippets. >> Yeah. Yeah. Just things changing so dramatically in the SERs where you know like if you go back and look at you know I go back and look at archive and seeing all the the screenshots that I had from like various campaigns and like there were actually just blue links at one point like when I was doing this it was like if you rank number one into blue links you got 30% of those clicks. That was awesome. Um, but just over time it just Google just kept chipping away and chipping away and those clicks just keep falling and I was I I I have like I wish I could go back and find when I I made this prediction and I basically I I said it in one of my videos or I said it somewhere and then I also even told my wife this, but um I was like the only way that SEO could die, there's only one way that it could truly just like either die or make my life very very difficult was if Google was somehow now able to just answer questions without anyone needing to click. And I literally had this like I was like that's the only way that could happen. >> That sounds familiar. >> Yeah. And then come to find out uh they did do that. And it was always like I I always knew that was a possibility but it seemed really far away like super super because featured snippets were kind of like the beginning of that, right? And there were also instant answers. And even things a lot of people who haven't been in SEO for a while like even a simple thing like if you search prior to AI what time is it in St. Lewis, you just get an answer, right? You don't there's no there's no citations. Like it was just here's the answer. So Google was even another iteration of that. >> Exactly. So there's a lot of surf features that were already kind of giving some hints into where we were going with this. Um and so I was, let's say, relatively prepared for this kind of decrease in clicks because the writing was on the wall. Now um I have to say, uh you know, I guess that was November 2022 when Chat GBT came out. Um, I was already using AI prior to that with Jasper. So, using it to create, you know, using it to create content and stuff like that and I still have content ranking today that I created with Jasper and I guess that was GBT3 >> uh at the time. >> Yeah, it was the first iteration of a rapper. It really blew my mind. >> Yeah, it was pretty crazy. Um, but then when ChatGBT launched and I used it for the first time, my it blew my my head off. I mean, I was just like, whoa, this is crazy. Like I just knew when I when I started using it, I'm like what? Things are about to change. Like and it it may not be tomorrow, but it's going to happen. It's going to happen fast. Um and I and funny enough, I have a video I published. It was like I think it was maybe like a couple weeks after Chat GBT launched. I have it on my channel still. And I said I said, "If you're doing SEO, you you better pay attention to this because this is going to be a problem." And you should have seen my comment section. It was like, "Oh, this isn't going to do anything to SEO that Google is so dominant and so and just people just sticking their heads in the sand." And you can see it like people didn't want to see it's still happening. And you know, chat GBT is the fifth most po or yeah, Chat GBT itself is the fifth most popular website on the internet right now. And I mean, it's about to pass Instagram, which is just mind-blowing. So, um, so anyway, I, you know, when I, when I got my hands on Chat GD for the first time, I knew I was like, okay, I got to go all in on this. I got to figure out number one, how are these responses, how are they created? Uh, what's what, you know, what's under the hood? I need to figure that out first. And then number two, how do I leverage this technology to my advantage? And this has been just building and building and building. And now it's at a point where like, man, the amount of stuff I do with AI is unreal. I don't even share most of it, which is the scary part. Like the stuff I share on my channel, the stuff I share even in my, you know, my academy, like >> I'm showing stuff, but I'm not showing you the real good stuff I'm doing. >> We got to get you on another podcast episode like >> Yeah. So anyway, that's So for me, that was kind of like the thing where I was like, "Okay, I got to make a switch like ASAP." >> Yeah. >> And I've just Yeah, >> that makes sense. Um, you know, there's so much we could get into here, Nathan, but really two questions that I really want to hammer on in this in this episode here. Is SEO dead? Right? That is the the number one question that you probably get every single day at this point from interactions or just online everywhere. What stays? What's gone? Like what is your response to this whole thing? >> Well, SEO, I mean, it's funny the there's kind of this I feel like there's a journey that most people go through in this uh this kind of like disruption. Okay, so initially you get this feeling of like whoa there's like this is dead like like I need to find a new job like this is way too difficult but then you go through like okay let me mess around with AI a little bit and then you realize you're like man this is a lot of opportunity here and you realize that um and you kind of go through this process but then when you go deeper into and as you know this as well who's someone who's very deep in AI um when you go real deep I'm not talking service level stuff I'm talking like you're actually building websites with AI, you're actually coding. You're building automation coding. Yeah. Exactly. The further you go deeper into that, the more you realize that we're not even close to AGI, right? When you start when you use a vibe coder for the first time and you create your site real quickly or, you know, application like, oh my gosh, I just unlocked the greatest power of all time. But then you go a little bit deeper and then you got bugs and things break and then Replet deletes your whole website. That's when things you realize you're like, "Okay, we're not there." Like, we are not there. And so, the only way to really know that though is to get your hands really dirty with this stuff. And and as much as I love it, as much as I I've, you know, streamline so many things, there's just a lot that has to happen. Humans are necessary still, >> for sure. You know, and one thing I can't stand about the whole SEO is dead thing, and I want to hear your iteration off of this, is when people just say SEO is like a blanket statement. Well, first of all, top offunnel informational SEO is completely different from local SEO is completely different from YouTube SEO and not to mention Tik Tok and Instagram and all the other mediums that are still SEO in my opinion. So, I think let's just start there. Like SEO is just thrown around as this blanket statement which you and I both know that's not true at all. >> Right. Well, I think the problem is ju this is just because of the branding piece of this which is like SEO has become synonymous with Google and so people think oh well Google's killing clicks therefore SEO is dead and that we know that's not true in fact um I've been talking about for the last couple years to focus more on this concept of topic domination which is you don't just start with your website you you think even broader how do I rank on YouTube how do I rank on uh LinkedIn and we can talk more about the AI piece of this but certain websites feed into AI a lot, right? And so you need to be present on those sites. And so like if you look up just a small example like the keyword uh start an SEO agency or how to start an SEO agency, you'll find my blog post, but then you'll also find like three YouTube videos there and then you'll find a LinkedIn post. So, it's like that's what I call topic domination where you've got like Google taking over the first page and we know we can get into the the geeky, you know, AI search stuff, but we know that these AI search platforms when they do retrieval, they go to traditional search engines, public search engines. Uh the debate is which ones do they use and but it's kind of irrelevant. What matters is that they go to public search engines. Um and for anyone to say that SEO is dead, you're essentially saying that search engines are not used for retrieval, which is just not true, right? We we know that we it is a fact. You know, the it's a little blurry on like does it does chatt use Google versus Bing? That's kind of up for debate right now. Um >> I would assume Bing with the Microsoft investment, but that's a conversation for another day. >> It it is and and I I've seen conf a lot of conflicting even anecdotally and then you know different different studies. So, but for me I I don't get into that stuff. I just care like okay are they using search engines? Yes or no? >> And if they are that's where we need to be. So, um, so anyway, yeah, for me SEO is not even close to dead and on top of it, like you know, we have a software company and this is going to shock you. Uh, we've been using SEO to grow it. So, you know, it's not dead. >> That sounded like a YouTube title. That's what Sean, you know, >> right? Yeah. So, so anyway, yeah. No, I mean, I think I think what need what um strategies have to change. That's the key. Strategies have to change. And also a big one like I just finished a whole training on um AI search analytics and that's another area we're like very disrupted as far as how do we actually track this stuff? How do we actually like report to a business owner and say this is what we're doing to drive business KPIs? Like what do we do now? It's it's not as simple anymore as just here's your individual keyword rankings. Here's your Google, you know, analytics traffic. Like there's >> it's gotten more complex. >> Yeah. Here's your Google Search Console report. But by the way, Google's hiding all of these other metrics now that they didn't used to. But I mean, it's just getting attribution is the devil of marketing, not just SEO. I call it the devil of marketing for what you >> Yep. Yep. Absolutely. Yeah. Attribution is one that's so so hard. >> And I I have a hard time with anyone who claims they've got attribution on lock because I'm like, you're just you're just not telling the truth. Yeah. >> Like no one has good attribution. I heard like Google Analytics. I hate G4 first of all when they changed it from UA, but the best quote I ever heard about this was that Google Analytics is Google's analytics. Meaning that it's very hard to attribute from other sources because it's only giving you what Google wants you to see on their platform and that really made me think about it differently. I thought that was very well said. >> Yeah, that's true. Yeah. Well, and also the thing is too like the the journey now is so fragmented like someone you know like with these AI chat platforms on chat you've probably experienced this yourself like I've gone through a full salesfunnel journey full sales like compressed journey in one chat window. So, like I went from like top of the funnel all the way down to the end, you know, 30 minutes later to actually buying something like like that was crazy like just to witness it yourself like anecdotally going through that and funny enough is I went to Google to find that brand to find that product. Now what who's going to get attribution there? Google. Google will get attribution because that's the last touch even though the whole journey was compressed inside of chat GBT. So it's just it's just too hard. And so all you can do is just try to get a ball like have a lot of different data points. We can talk about that to get a you know a much more broader view of what's going on. But um but yeah, it's a tough one. It it like it very very tough >> for sure. And on this similar topic, one of the best things that I've heard from you just from any SEO in general is you kind of rebranded SEO to search everywhere optimization. That's one of the best phrases I've heard on SEO, especially in this AI search era. you've been very vocal about GEO, AEO, LLMO, whatever acronym of the week that we want to pick that most of this is just buzzwords. So, how should marketers expand their view beyond just is it AEO, GEO, is SEO dead? Right? I think it's all a bunch of BS with these acronyms and it always trickles back to some form of SEO some way, shape, or form, right? So, I guess what is your response to all of this GEO, AEO versus SEO argument? No, I mean I I definitely think there's some people just trying to rebrand things just because it's it like we know just from, you know, copywriting and and general direct response marketing that new things are easier to sell than old things. So, um, it's just, you know, it from a marketing perspective, it's smart, but from like when we look under the hood and we look at like actually what's going on. For me, the way I kind of think about it right now is like to get if we're talking about visibility inside of the AI chat platform. So, let's say chatd, perplexity, all the good ones, okay? And you want to get your brand to be listed in the AI generator response for commercial queries. Okay? That's the that's the that's the dream. Okay? Well, I would too. >> Yeah, exactly. Bottom of the funnel commercial queries. And um you know, I think that 80% of what we like it's 80% is just standard best practice SEO stuff that we've always been doing. I I like if you just do do standard SEO, you're going to do pretty well more than likely. >> Yeah. And so just to, you know, kind of define standard SEO, I guess to me, it's all about high quality content and trust signals. I think those are the two big buckets, right? Obviously with trust signals, we could get granular with backlinks and brand mentions and all that fun stuff, but I think it really comes down to those two things in my opinion. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, and I think it's important to mention like kind of how it gets segmented out as far as the SEO bucket. So like let's say that 80% let's kind of segment that that out. So first for me is your home base which is your website. Like that's still very very important. In fact, we've been testing this a ton where we're literally using our website to influence the AI generated responses significantly. So, I think you should start there. Build, you know, hyperfocused, relevant content that uh is more middle of the funnel, bottom of the funnel. I'm not talking top of the funnel stuff. If you want to do the top of the funnel stuff, save that for YouTube. Don't put like don't don't do that on your site because all it's going to do just get it's just going to get ripped by the AI anyway and it's going to be pointless and you're not going to get cited on top of it. >> So, the stuff that really matters on your site now is going to be middle to bottom of the funnel. Also, branded queries as well. you also want to be, you know, making sure you're covering all of those. Um, but for me, I think about like this SEO bucket is like, okay, start with the site. Once we've we've gone a mile deep on our most important topics, then we're going to go the next most logical place is YouTube because it is the second most popular website on the internet and we should have a presence there. And on top of it, it's a feeder into these AI search platforms as well. So, just by focusing on those two alone, you're going to do a lot of damage just on those. Um, and then obviously there's, you know, there's the third-party signals which are massive, right? The stuff that's not within your control, you know, not your branded assets. Um, and I think traditional link building going towards your website is still should continue to be something that happens. Um, but I do think the the strategies at least for us has changed a little bit. So like it used to be when we start a campaign, the number one objective is just grow site authority, right? We just want to grow site authority. uh build a very powerful website that allows us to basically rank for anything, right? That's still the idea. Still want to do that, but we're a little more deliberate with the things we're doing. So, like a small example, we go and immediately do uh do prospecting for listicles, right? That's the first thing we do now. Immediately go start looking for listicles. >> That's a good tip there, too. >> Yeah. And I want to look at listicles that are ranking well, right? Because we know in most cases based on you know at least our internal stuff that we've seen when retrieval happens it's usually sometimes it there will be only one like the top ranking result will be the only source of retrieval. Other times it will go as far back as number 20 in retrieval like in in the traditional rankings. >> So it you know anywhere between 1 to 20 can be you know and it's not like a hard law here but but that's what we've seen in general um on average. And so what I want to do is I want to make sure that our brand has coverage on every single potential source of retrieval. So that's what I want to think about is like okay we like we look at these let's say the top 10 results for particular commercial keyword like how many of these is our brand you know on these listicles and it's you know people way overthink this stuff like it's pretty simple like if you look at the top 10 and you're only mentioned once uh you need to increase the amount of coverage you have on these critical pages and all it takes is reaching out saying hey how do is it possible for us to get on this page And you'd be surprised how many people respond. Yeah. So, um, so anyway, we can talk more about that, but that's for me kind of the way I try to think about it. >> Yeah, that that's a very good explanation there. Um, you know, one thing I want to go off of on YouTube, you mentioned YouTube. I honestly tell people now in this day and age of AI dominating the search landscape. I recommend all people just in mo not all but most people start with YouTube or long form YouTube as kind of their content foundation because like you said I think from an SEO perspective YouTube is still very underrated and untapped in a lot of industries and not to mention you can leverage AI and automations to repurpose the long form YouTube transcripts into any other shorter form content variation. It just makes a lot of sense for me for people to just go all in on long form YouTube. that there's such a high barrier to entry because no one wants to show up and put themselves on camera. So, they'll try the Faceless, but we, you know, you and I both know Faceless doesn't really convert worth the in my opinion. So, I always for rambling, YouTube must be the starting point. Long form YouTube. >> Yep. Exactly. Yeah. And I mean, um, you know, I've been I've been screaming from the rooftops now for like many, many years for, you know, SEO agencies, SEO agency owners. I'm like, please, for the love of God, just go on YouTube, just start publishing videos. But I'm telling you, um, it's hard. There there's a lot of there's a lot of friction when it comes to video. And people, if you think people overthink like written words, the amount they overthink with video is unbelievable. And so, like, like, so the way I think about, it's so funny because I have like my setup over here. It's, you know, I've got my light uh, I've got my my my camera set up on a tripod. I don't move it at all. Everything stays in the same spot. So, I I don't have any friction to record. I have no excuses. It's right there. I sit down and I do my recordings. But the thing I try to tell people is like, you're literally in a room by yourself. Number one. And number two, you're talking to a camera that has no emotions, no judgment or anything. So, the only reason why people get afraid to to record video, and I'm speaking from experience here, is because we're thinking about what other people are going to think about us. And if you don't get over that, that's going to be a real problem. And the only way to get over it >> for a while, >> well, and it held me back. I I should have I if I wasn't afraid to do video, I would have started recording in probably 2015. But because I was so afraid, I waited all the way until 2017 to finally start publishing. And I regret I like that's my only regret in business. I guess >> which by the way, you forgot to mention, you are one of the top SEO voices on YouTube today. >> Well, yeah. I mean, I just I've published a lot of videos and I've been doing it for a long time. So, the longer you stay in the game, the more you're going to learn, right? And that's just, you know, and and so there has to be this process of just preventing overthinking. And you just have to get in the habit of like, okay, I'm publishing a video a week no matter how well these videos do. And I'm going to do that until I publish a hundred videos and I'm not going to look at the data. Like >> smart. What what happens is people they they publish one video and they say, "Why do I not have 100,000 subscribers, >> you know?" >> Yeah. I'm trying to go viral. Everyone tells viral, but like even if you do go viral, what are your systems to capitalize from that? These are the things that people don't think about. >> Exactly. And it's and it's highly niche dependent, too. Like if you're in B2B, you're not going viral. Like there's no there's not really viral stuff. And plus, I'll tell you based on my exper I've, you know, been creating content for now a decade. um the content that gets the most amount of views usually gets the worst conversions >> almost almost every time and it and it's really hard for people to overcome that because they look at the vanity and they think that that's money but it's not and so the best videos that I ever publish best content I publish sometimes my lowest viewed stuff right it's just the way it is so >> you're doing it the right way you're using as a lead genen machine to funnel all the other products that you got on the back end >> yeah and exactly like I never like to be honest I I I appreciate you you know talking about my YouTube stuff, but like I only went on YouTube because I I viewed it as a marketing channel, right? I never viewed it as like I'm going to be an influencer. Like >> I didn't think about that. I just said, "Okay, YouTube's a place where people go. I love YouTube myself anecdotally." So, and like at the time when I started um you know, the number like the biggest YouTubers in the SEO space was Neil Patel and Brian Dean, right? For sure. >> Like that was basically it. There wasn't really a whole income school there wasn't a lot. Yeah, not a lot of guys. Um, like a handful basically. So, I was like, I guess I'll try. And so, I did it. But, um, but yeah, I mean, I I just can't stress it enough. It's so important. And like, this isn't just my opinion. Just go and look at the most popular websites. I mean, it YouTube and Google are the most popular websites on the internet. So, >> yeah. >> Uh, for obviously got >> we could talk about this forever. I want to give you a chance to talk about rankability a little bit here. And I guess what kind of separates that as all these other AI SEO SAS tools that exist today? Like what's your quick selling point on rankability? Why should an SEO use it? >> Well, I think it's mainly because of who we serve, you know, and we serve a very specific market. So like a lot of tools, you know, to each their own, right? They they want us they want to be the next HRS, the the next Sush, whatever it may be. Okay, that's cool. Serve everyone. But for us, we're specifically focused on agencies and that's who we serve best. We know I know their pain more than any other market because I've experienced their pain myself. I know the pain. And so for when I'm every single thing that we do in Rankability is always thinking from that lens, right? Like is this actually going to help an agency get their clients better results, right? And so that's why like in our tool, we don't put any, you know, uh, vanity related things in there or fancy bells and whistles that are not going to help move that needle forward, which is that number one goal, which is to help their clients get consistent results in, you know, Google and these AI platforms. So, um, so for us, like, you know, we're just we're just focused on that one mission. And, you know, yes, there's other content optimization tools out there. Yes, there's other AI plenty of AI search tracking tools out there. Um, but we we already feel that like the way that we're approaching is already very different. Um, because we're not like to be honest, we don't really look at the competitors. We're because we're we're >> we have a little bit of an advantage and maybe I shouldn't talk about this advantage, but for people that might be listening, but um, >> you know, I have an academy, right? I have Gotcha SEO Academy and 95% of the people in that training are agencies. So every twice a week I do coaching calls. Yeah. So you know twice a week I do coaching calls and I get to hear every single time what they're dealing with right now and I'm that's coming into me. It's a feedback loop, right? So say, "Okay, I see the challenges they're dealing with. I see the problems that they're, you know, they're encountering in these campaigns. How do we solve these problems with rankability?" >> Yeah. >> Right. And so that's how that's how it works for me is like I build the training and then I think about okay how could we actually make this even more efficient, more scalable for agencies. Software is beautiful in that way, right? Like like and like like we can talk about the pros and cons of building a SAS company too, but very expensive to build a SAS company. I bet like I I mean we've taken my partner and I we have taken basically all of our profit from Goshio Academy and just put it into rankability. I mean, just what we do. Like, I could have easily purchased a Lamborghini with the amount of money that we've put into this tool. But >> you could have made some good thumbnails off that. >> Yeah, I could have. You know, I could have done the whole private jet thing, but I, you know, I want to build I want to build like I'm I'm I want to build a company and that that really solves a lot of problems and and for us, that's why we we've decided to to make that investment. So, >> yeah. And that's cool, right? There's so many SEO tools now. I still remember sitting in like 2016 2017 looking at hrefs doing the traditional what's the keyword difficulty what's the MSV right and then just cranking out content based on that old playbook and unfortunately there's still a lot of SEOs I think who are still doing that exact same thing >> yeah and I mean that's uh it's the way it's always been to be honest I mean this is >> checklist SEO we call it >> yeah checklist SEO and you know there is there is utility and obviously publishing a a volume of content there is utility there but you can't sacri sacrifice quality with that goal, you know? So, >> yeah, unless you're Forbes adviser with a 90DR and can get away with all those longtail keywords. >> Exact. Exactly. Yeah. And I I see I see a lot of new site owners who immediately just start like cranking out content. That's a huge mistake. So, I'll give you a small example of this. Like for rankability, um we didn't publish a single piece of content until we got to a DR 43. So I didn't pure >> outrage pure links >> just pure links. We just built links for basically a year and a half. Didn't even touch any content. There's no point. There's no point publishing content until you have authority in my opinion because you're if you do, you're going to have to drive a lot of links to those individual pages to lift them because you don't have the authority to rank. So funny enough is when I started publishing content, started playing that game, everything's ranking. >> Everything's ranking. So just interesting point. >> It's my it's my personal strategy. Of course, there's many ways to slice and dice SEO, but for me, it's always focus on growing site authority and then start to build a topical authority on the site. So, >> yeah. Well, I want to head into the rapidfire questions now as we're heading over a half hour here. Um, just some rapidfire responses to these. Love to hear your opinion. What's your biggest AI prediction for SEO in the next six to 12 months? >> You know, I I think that most and I I'm very scared to say this, so just you know, things move. so fast. I I just it's so hard to predict. I can't even predict next week, let alone six months. So, um but I will say, you know, there's been so much disruption over the last couple of years and even actually this last year with Google bringing in AI mode and we knew that was coming, but you know, >> yeah, but it'll get there soon. >> It will, right? And I think it's I think last time I saw like around 1% of US users are using it at this point, which is a lot by Google's, you know, scale. But um but for me, you know, I don't I don't see a situation where there could be any bigger disruption than what's already happened unless AGI comes and it just blows, you know, blows everything out of the water. Um because Google has already taken clicks away. So that that's already happened. AI mode is already here. AI overviews have been here for a long time now. uh ChatGBT and all the other AI platforms, they are what they are. Like they like, you know, GBT5 came out and it was like, oh, okay. Like, yeah, it it wasn't Yeah, it's Yeah, it's a little bit more powerful. Yeah, it's a little more consolidated, but it's still doing the same stuff. It's just AI generated responses. If it doesn't know the answer, it retrieves. So, it's the same thing. So, I don't I don't really know what could happen that's going to be so disruptive that's going to like >> have to completely destroy all of our strategies. I think it's already happened and now now we're we're picking up the pieces and we're trying to figure out, okay, how do where do we go from here? I think it's starting to become a lot more clear. So, >> here's something interesting to to think about based on what you just said. I don't know what someone coined it. It was like AI AO or something. AI agent optimization with like perplexity comet and you know GBT operator, right? As agents coming, but I think the fundamentals are still relatively similar if it's just agents going in and searching. That's a super interesting thing to think about though. >> Uh, for sure. And I've been I do use agents. Um, and I can tell you I so when operator came out for the first time, I put out a video and showed some of its capabilities. Once again, it can do some basic stuff, but it really struggles. Even like for example, a comet. I've already been testing the agent there. And uh a task that I had tried to get it to do was take a blog post from a Google doc and put it into WordPress and format it right and it did it like 50% really well. But then what happened is once it formatted the 50% of the article, it got stuck and then it just hallucinated the rest. So it just it just made up like yeah it just made up 50% of the rest and I was like oh >> uh you know and so once again you know that's the challenge with these with even with the agents the agents still are prone to hallucination >> right >> and you know and so when you have that much hallucination going on you have to be really really careful with quality assurance so that's why even for us when we're using AI we still have a human editor come in we still have that quality assurance and like we just put did a whole cluster about AI search tracking ing tools and my one of my team members I have her go through and do the QA and she's like she's like yeah a lot of these citations just aren't real and I'm like yeah that's what happens >> huge and all the little AI hype guys online they always like to brush past the the Q&A and the quality assurance side of it. >> No and and it's not just in the writing it's also in even in the vibe coding too. I mean there's a lot of hallucination when you're doing vibe coding too. It's crazy. Yeah. Uh like today I had I uh had to no index a page that you know I didn't want to show the public, right? And I'm looking at I'm like why is this not getting picked up as no index? I had everything in there and then I I look even deeper and there's I'm missing a closing bracket and you know it's like that's just a classic example like it just there's a lot of you need that human touch, right? Yeah. And like I even went back and forth with like I use I use replets my tool of choice and like I'm going back and forth and it's like oh yeah I fixed it. Right. It always says that right. It's fixed. It's good. I'm like no it's not >> based on your set of predefined instructions whatever those >> exactly. Yeah. >> So another one here for you Nathan. If Google removed all organic results tomorrow as we just talked about the AI mode. I think I know your answer to this. And what would be the channel that you would bet on if you had to go 100% allin? Well, I mean, I don't even think that's possible because there's no way that the AI would have any food to eat, right? Like the AI has no food if it doesn't have organic results. So, and I mean, technically it could go to Reddit. Technically, it could go to other platforms, >> platforms. Yeah. >> Yeah. It it could like it could find its food somewhere else, but that's one of its most reliable sources at this point. Um, and Google's not going to, you know, just throw its baby in the trash that it's built for the last however many years, right? So, >> you know, all these people harping about Google removing all this stuff. We have to remember here that Alphabet, who owns Google, still makes what 60 to 70% of total revenue through ads, through YouTube and search and all the other mediums they have. So, there's got to be an agenda at play here. >> Yeah. Oh, yeah. They're uh they're thinking through that. You know, this is not they're not doing this for the goodness of their heart. So, they're going to they're going to be, you know, they're going to monetize AI mode any day now. You know, that's coming. >> Yeah. >> My old boss gave me an SEO. He's like, Google is not a charity. Just always remember that. And that stuck with me. >> That is absolutely true. But yeah, I mean, you know, let's say it is a theoretical situation and tomorrow they just wipe it out. Um, you know, I just go to the next logical place, which is YouTube, >> right? Because YouTube, you know, YouTube is the second most popular website and we know that, you know, these AI platforms love it. So, um, and just to kind of clarify on this with the with the YouTube piece, >> the AI platforms don't watch your videos, right? But they go and they extract that transcript and then they use NLP to to to identify the entities to understand it. So, um, this is why it's really important. So, like this is a little hack, uh, not to kind of plug rankability here, but when I write my tra when I write my scripts for videos, I use rankability. So, I go into the content optimizer and I hit on all the entities inside the script. So when I say it, I'm actually I know it's gonna it's going to get picked up by not only YouTube's algorithms, but also potentially the AI as well. >> That's smart. I don't even script my videos. I just click record and let it >> Yeah. For the ones that I do script, I don't always script, but for the ones I do. Yeah. >> All right. Well, let me ask you this quick. What's the most overrated SEO best practice in the age of AI search? >> Man, overrated? You know, I think the one that gets the most hype that I think has the least amount of impact is Reddit. I think people way overhype Reddit as being like the the end all beall for influencing AI generated responses. Um, I think it helps. I think it's a good confirmer of other signals, but I don't think it's as powerful as people make it out to be. Like for example, if you just go on to Reddit and you start plugging your brand everywhere, that's not going to like change anything really for you, right? It's not >> I think authority is another big one, too. >> That one's highly debated. Yes. Um, but I do believe there's a lot of merit to it. Uh, just because I've seen it with my own eyes and I've seen the opposite. Like >> traditional topical authority advice where you have your top of funnel topical authority listical, you do reviews on all the listicles, comparisons, and you can use AI to do all this. I think that side of topical authority is overrated. >> Yeah. Well, for me, I don't you know what, whatever you want to call it to me, you know, it doesn't really make a difference. I know there's different different schools of thought on this, but for me, >> when I pick a topic, I think about going a mile deep on that topic. And that's the way that I approach every topic is because most truthfully, when I've done, you know, hundreds, possibly thousands of audits at this point, uh, and when I look at businesses, they just scratch the surface on topics, right? Like you'll look at a personal injury lawyer website who offers medical malpractice, you know, uh, one of their commercial pages and they've got like two pages to support that commercial page, right? And like medical malpractice law, like there's like five billion ideas just in that one little tiny pocket. So for me, I think really heavily like, okay, have we actually covered this topic to the fullest extent? Have we covered it all the way that we can? And the answer is usually no. I very rarely find a site where it's like, wow, they there's nothing left to be said about this. Um, that's pretty rare. And I've just seen it works so well. And and the reason why I know it works so well is because we measure like buckets. So we'll look at the different clusters and we'll measure them. And the ones where there's big deficits almost always underperform the ones where there's a lot of depth uh in those topics. >> Yeah. So, uh, but to be fair, the sites we're working on are also doing link building and we're growing that over time. So, these are not sites that are like, you know, DR0 with no links. >> So, it's not the only variable, but it is one that I think does certainly help in some ways. Yeah, >> and that makes sense. And we could chat about SEO and AI for hours here, but I want to be respectful of your time as well. And where's the best place for people to follow you online to learn more about what you're doing? I mean, I think YouTube's probably the place I'm most consistent. That's where I put out like my deepest level work. You know, LinkedIn and X, it's just kind of, you know, that's short >> automations. >> Yeah. Yeah. And there's like, you know, there's no context there, right? Like it's it's all hooks and just trying to get people to engage. But I think the good stuff's on YouTube, right? I think like that's where it can actually go deep and really give that deep level context. So, yeah, just Nathan Gotch on YouTube. >> Awesome. Well, I'll leave all those links in the video description below. Nathan, thank you again so much for hopping on this edition of AI Rabbit Holes. And thanks again to everyone for watching or listening.